# MYAC-Seating-Auditions

-----------------------------------------------------------

MYAC Seating Auditions Program

-----------------------------------------------------------

This program automates the process of assigning tape codes to orchestra members and creating coded Dropbox folders for distribution of tapes.

-----------------------------------------------------------

Requirements for Setup:

The program takes in an input of a .csv file as a roster.  This can be created in either Excel, Google Sheets, or a similar spreadsheet program.
Save (if Excel) or download (if Google Sheets) the file as a .csv file and rename it to be called "Roster.csv".

***
Roster must be formatted in a certain way.  It must have the following columns: "Last Name", "First Name", "Orchestra", and "Instrument"
The first row of Roster must be the column names above, formatted exactly as listed above.
The first letter of the values in Orchestra and Instrument do NOT need to be capitalized, but the titles MUST have first-letter capitalization.

Values under the Instrument column must be one of the following (again, not necessarily the same case):
Violin 1, Violin 2, Viola, Cello, Bass, Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, Bassoon, Horn, Trumpet, Trombone, Tuba, Percussion

Note that violin parts must be separated into either 1 or 2, a value of just "Violin" or "violin" will result in no code being assigned to that player.
***

After correctly creating and formatting Roster, move "Roster.csv" into the folder that contains the .py files (MYAC Seating Auditions Program by default).
Make sure that the correct Dropbox location on the PC is updated in folders.py (folders.py can be opened in a text-editing program such as Notepad).
The line of code to change is :
		dropbox_location = 'C:\\Users\\finle\\Dropbox\\'
Be sure to include two backslashes (\\) instead of just one backslash between folder directories, as displayed above.

NOTE: Intermediate folders in the Dropbox do not have to exist at the time of running the program as the program will create them if they do not exist.  For example, the user does not have to create instrument folders within an orchestra folder (Concert Seating Auditions or Violin 1).

-----------------------------------------------------------

Running the Program: 

In order to run this program, Python 3 must be installed on the user's computer.  To install python, follow this step-by-step guide.  Be sure to use Python 3.
For Windows: https://www.howtogeek.com/197947/how-to-install-python-on-windows/


Once Python is installed, verify it by going to the Windows Command Window by searching for "cmd" in the Start Menu, type "python" at the cursor, and press Enter.
Text should appear and show you the correct version of python.

Once Python has been installed and verified, go to the Windows Command Window by searching for "cmd" in the Start menu.
Navigate to the directory that includes the program files (MYAC Seating Auditions Program by default) by using the command "cd".
For example, if the folder is on the Desktop, the commands would be:

cd Desktop
cd MYAC Seating Auditions Program

Finally, type "python seating_auditions.py" and press Enter.

-----------------------------------------------------------

Program Outputs:

The program outputs two files.  The first is a .csv file called "assignedcodes.csv".  This file contains a table of the roster that was input with an added column with the codes generated by the program.  It can be opened in Excel or Google Sheets and converted into an Excel or Sheets file.

IMPORTANT: This file should be saved elsewhere because the program deletes any existing files before generating a new one every time it is ran.

The second file is "codes.txt".  This file is a plain text file used to generate the Dropbox folders for each of the codes.  It is a list of all the codes used without any names.  It has no logistical use in terms of administering seating auditions.

-----------------------------------------------------------
